# Code for PeRConAI 2026 paper: "Enhancing ECG Classification Robustness with Lightweight Unsupervised Anomaly Detection Filters"

## Data Generation
To generate the necessary data files, clone the repo, create a "data" folder at the top level with two subfolders named "ptb_xl" and "brno-university-of-technology-ecg-quality-database". Then download the PTB-XL dataset (https://physionet.org/content/ptb-xl/1.0.3/), the Brno University ECG Quality Database (https://physionet.org/content/butqdb/1.0.0/) and the MIT-BIH Noise Stress Test Database (https://physionet.org/content/nstdb/1.0.0/). Put the PTB-XL dataset path into the "ptb_xl_get_csv_files.py" script at line 14 and the "ptb_xl_dataset_prep.py" script at line 47 (both marked by comments). Also put the Brno University ECG Quality Database path into the "brno_dataset_prep.py" and "brno_get_class3_noise_windows.py" scripts at line 10 (both marked by comments). Finally, put the MIT-BIH Noise Stress Test Database path into the "SNR_estimation.py" script at line 245 (marked by comments). Then you can use the "ptb_xl_get_csv_files.py" file to generate the necessary csv files in order to use the "ptb_xl_dataset_prep.py" script to generate all of the ptb-xl data required. Use the "brno_dataset_prep.py" and "brno_get_class3_noise_windows.py" scripts to generate all of the required Brno University ECG Quality data. At the end use the "SNR_estimation.py" script to generate the rest of the data required for experiment 2. All of the generated data will be in the data folder.


## Experiment 1
For the first experiment execute all of the "nas.py" scripts in the subfolders of the "ecg_outlier_detection" as well as the "ecg_noise_detection" folder. This will execute the NAS and retrain the pareto front models as well as record the metrics in results files in the respective subfolders.


## Experiment 2
For the second experiment execute the "classifier_training.py" and "filter_training.py" scripts in that order in the folder "classifier_filter_system". The first script will train the baseline classifier, print accuracy metrics and save the classifier model as well as the best classifier thresholds. The second script will train the best performing DeepSVDD method as described in the paper (exact parameters can be seen on line 432), print filter AUC as well as the final best custom accuracy of the integrated system. It will also save all accuracies at all rejection threshold (two arrays) which can be used to replicate Fig. 3 of the paper. To change the CVD class for which this is done adjust the "CONDITION" variable in both scripts to one of the following: "MI", "STTC", "HYP", "CD".